[`one-app-bundler`]: https://github.com/americanexpress/one-app-cli/tree/master/packages/one-app-bundler
[React]: http://reactjs.org/

<!--ONE-DOCS-HIDE start-->
[👈 Return to Overview](./README.md)
<!--ONE-DOCS-HIDE end-->

# Running In Production

<!-- TODO: expand on this section -->
One App is battle tested as it has been in use in production within American Express with our most highly trafficked customer facing applications since 2016.

It was built with [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/) principles in mind and as such is
highly flexible and independent of its runtime.

One App can be started via docker or if built from source by running `node lib/server/index.js` on your server.

**Contents**
* [Building And Deploying Holocron Modules](#building-and-deploying-holocron-modules)
* [Building and Deploying a Holocron Module Map](#building-and-deploying-a-holocron-module-map)
* [Building One App](#building-one-app)
* [Configuring One App](#configuring-one-app)
* [Deploying to AWS Elastic Beanstalk](#deploying-to-aws-elastic-beanstalk)

## Building And Deploying Holocron Modules

Holocron Modules are [React] components that are bundled by
[`one-app-bundler`]
and are the pieces that make up a One App application instance.

Running [`one-app-bundler`] on a module builds and packages the module's source code into static assets
that can to be deployed to a CDN. It expects `./src/index.js` to export a [React] component and
creates a `build` directory as its output.

Input:
```
root
|── src
|   └── index.js
└── package.json
```


Output:
```
build
└── 1.0.0
    ├── <moduleName>.browser.js
    ├── <moduleName>.legacy.browser.js
    ├── <moduleName>.node.js
    └── en-us
        ├── <moduleName>.json
        ├── integration.json
        └── qa.json
```

`en-us` contains the language packs used for internationalization for the `en-US` locale. As this is
an example only `en-us` is shown but in your module you may have as many or few locales as needed.

`<moduleName>.browser.js` is the [modern browser bundle](https://github.com/americanexpress/babel-preset-amex/blob/master/browserlist.js#L15).

`<moduleName>.legacy.browser.js` is the [legacy browser bundle](https://github.com/americanexpress/babel-preset-amex/blob/master/browserlist.js#L24).

`<moduleName>.node.js` is the server bundle.

These bundles are used in One App depending on the environment your module is running in. For example
if One App detects that your module's bundle is being requested by an older browser then
the `<moduleName>.legacy.browser.js` bundle will be served which includes polyfills and the needed
transpilation for that browser. Otherwise it will serve the potentially leaner `<moduleName>.browser.js`
or the `<moduleName>.node.js` bundle when running on the server.

*Note that if you are making use of code splitting via dynamic imports in your module there may be more chunks in your `build` directory.*

One App has no opinion on where module bundles are deployed to, the only thing to keep in mind is
that all the assets for a given module must be kept together when deployed, i.e. the file structure
generated by [`one-app-bundler`] must not be modified. This is because the bundles rely on this
structure for knowing where to look for the lang packs. To see examples of how to deploy modules to certain hosting platforms, take a look at our documentation on [publishing modules](Publishing-Modules.md).

## Building and Deploying a Holocron Module Map

In order for One App to use a module two things need to happen:

1. The module's static assets must be deployed to a static server.
2. A Holocron module map must be created / updated with the module's metadata and hosted on a static server.

A Holocron module map is what tells One App what Modules it should load and where to find them.

It is what allows for Holocron modules to be loaded and used by One App without requiring a One App
deployment or restart. When One App is started on a server it reads from the `HOLOCRON_MODULE_MAP_URL`
to find out where it should fetch the module map from and then periodically polls this module
map and adds / removes / updates its internal module registry to match any changes to it.

Ultimately a Holocron Module Map is a JSON object of the following shape:

```json
{
  "clientCacheRevision": "123",
  "modules": {
    "<moduleName>": {
      "browser": {
        "integrity": "sha256-ws6s6vTApdkif2pOfsYOGwdfE9LurZ7Bwq4Olvomrf8= sha384-CLKgejOPhJjRFoUKxLRGeuH09z376SvuTfnWw8IhnShureZQmhzf+GoWGQeA++WU",
        "url": "https://example.com/modules/<moduleName>/0.0.0/<moduleName>.browser.js"
      },
      "legacyBrowser": {
        "integrity": "sha256-0wTIJNLsNA9kxoiTPpH0xcseRA+2MezF1r0cdhxx1X0= sha384-jrl8W8VHVqk42r//1LDOYgXG8KIIeBrYMRsEj8bXBEUBNq1X+PUr4XtqGubeoJ36",
        "url": "https://example.com/modules/<moduleName>/0.0.0/<moduleName>.legacy.browser.js"
      },
      "node": {
        "integrity": "sha256-LqwNreqEhpaXBRSmhW8/L1MpxcyBsoMwC4IKj8MSFTE= sha384-QLDAyAeq11y9llJhMXd36WwiGg49uJX23EtgaKsCVV83fUJ0rLrswb8V9IoeRIB2",
        "url": "https://example.com/modules/<moduleName>/0.0.0/<moduleName>.node.js"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The `clientCacheRevision` property is used to cache bust all module bundles. This works because its value is appended
to each module asset request from One App.

The `modules` property contains module objects containing the URL and
[subresource integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity)
information for each of the module's assets. There are three assets created by
[`one-app-bundler`] for each module that need to be referenced here for One App to use, `browser`,
`legacyBrowser`, and `node`. The value for the
[`integrity` property](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity)
is generated by [`one-app-bundler`] and can be found in the `bundle.integrity.manifest.json` file
within the module's root directory after running [`one-app-bundler`] on it.

Your CI / CD process can generate the module map and update it as modules are added / updated / removed
and then publish the file to a static server. Just like with module assets One App does not have an
opinion of where the module map is published, it only cares that the module map is accessible shaped
correctly.

For a complete example on how to deploy your modules and how to update your module map, please visit the [Publishing Modules Recipe](Publishing-Modules.md).

## Building One App

You can build the One App [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) image and run it in your cloud / data center of choice:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/americanexpress/one-app.git
cd one-app
docker build .
```

Or you can build from source which creates your server side assets at `./lib` and your client
side assets to be deployed to a CDN at `./build`.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/americanexpress/one-app.git
cd one-app
NODE_ENV=development npm ci
NODE_ENV=production npm run build
```

## Configuring One App

One App is configured via [environment variables](#). There are a few
environment variables that are required for One App to start up including the one used to let One App
know where to fetch a module map from as described above.

### Minimum Required Environment Variables:

In order for One App to start after it has been deployed, the following environment variables must be set before attempting to deploy / start the One App container:

- `HOLOCRON_MODULE_MAP_URL`
- `ONE_CLIENT_CDN_URL`
- `ONE_CLIENT_CSP_REPORTING_URL`
- `ONE_CLIENT_REPORTING_URL`
- `ONE_CLIENT_ROOT_MODULE_NAME`


Example:

```bash
HOLOCRON_MODULE_MAP_URL="https://example-module-map.vercel.app/"
ONE_CLIENT_CDN_URL="https://www.my-app-domain.com/_/static/"
ONE_CLIENT_CSP_REPORTING_URL="https://www.my-app-domain.com/_/report/security/csp-violation"
ONE_CLIENT_REPORTING_URL="https://www.my-app-domain.com/_/report/errors"
ONE_CLIENT_ROOT_MODULE_NAME="my-root-module-name"
```

## Deploying to AWS Elastic Beanstalk

Prerequisites:

- AWS account
- A valid module map with at least the root module published and deployed. You can follow [this guide](Publishing-Modules.md) to create your module map and deploy your modules.

You can deploy the published [One App production image](https://hub.docker.com/r/oneamex/one-app) from Docker Hub to Elastic Beanstalk by following these steps:

1. Go to the AWS console, select Elastic Beanstalk and click on "Create Application".
2. Give your application a name and select "Docker" as the platform.
3. Select "Sample Application" and click "Create Application".
4. Before we can upload and install the One App image to our new environment, we need to add the [Minimum Required Environment Variables](#minimum-required-environment-variables). Click on the "Configuration" of your new environment,
under the "Software" category click "Edit". Enter all the required environment variables under the "Environment Properties" section.

> Important: Ensure that you have entered a valid `HOLOCRON_MODULE_MAP_URL` that is publicly accessible and that at least the root module specified in `ONE_CLIENT_ROOT_MODULE_NAME` is published; failure to do so, will result in One App crashing and unable to start.


5. Click on "Upload and deploy". You will need to upload a `Dockerrun.aws.json` file that contains the following:

 ```json
{
  "AWSEBDockerrunVersion": "1",
  "Image": {
    "Name": "oneamex/one-app:latest"
  },
  "Ports": [
    {
      "ContainerPort": "3000"
    }
  ]
}
```
> Note: You can select the desired version of One App deployed to Docker Hub instead of latest by changing the tag in the image name.

After the deployment is complete, you can navigate to your application by clicking on "Go to environment". If the application health displays an error, One App might be failing to start due to a missing environment variable or missing configuration. You can request the logs and the console should display the reason why One App is crashing.

More information on how to deploy Docker containers on AWS Elastic Beanstalk can be found on the official [AWS Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/create_deploy_docker.html). 

[☝️ Return To Top](#running-in-production)
